hey check it out your bones are designed
to be used a lot
every day some of them can absorb the
force of two
or even three times your body weight
that's impressive
but your teeth are even stronger when
you bite something
they can withstand incredible pressure
up to 200 pounds
by the way the enamel is considered to
be a part of your skeletal system
whenever you rotate your hand the bones
inside your forearm cross
grab hold of your arm and turn your palm
to face first
upward and then downward you'll make
sure it's true
not only is your body 60 water your
bones contain some liquid too
about 25 of the human bone mass is made
up of water
the human eye has something in common
with a car engine
they both can't work properly without
various liquids
the eye needs tears as much as the
engine needs oil
tears should be evenly spread over the
surface of your eye
that's why you blink up to 20 000 times
a day
and your eyelid plays the role of a
windshield wiper
the only part of the human body that
doesn't get any nutrients from blood
is the cornea the clear front surface of
the eye
instead it's fed by tears on the outside
and special fluids on the inside
when you blush it means there is
increased blood flow in your body
and then not only your cheeks but also
your stomach lining get somewhat red
it's because it has plenty of blood
vessels when there's more blood than
usual in them
the lining blushes your stomach lining
gets replaced every three to four days
this prevents the organ from eating
itself the digestive acids there are
exceptionally powerful
people can accidentally swallow small
objects such as
glass plastic items coins and many
others
normally they don't cause any harm and
pass through the digestive tract within
48 hours tiny quantities of plastic you
might consume by mistake won't harm you
but your stomach will have problems with
digesting grass
grazing animals have special teeth and
stomachs to process
raw leaves and grass people aren't
equipped that way
the stomach is the most important
protector of the immune system
it contains hydrochloric acid this acid
gets rid of dangerous food toxins
viruses and bacteria
that come along with the food you eat
the stomach itself
would be digested by the strong acid if
the mucous membrane
didn't protect it you've got two really
fast muscles
they control your eyelids closing
they're the swiftest in your body
your eyes are fragile and need
protection when a special reflex is
triggered for example
when something suddenly touches your eye
these muscles only need
one tenth of a second to shut the
eyelids
women usually blink more than men plus
the older you get
the more frequently you do it by the way
when you watch a movie with a friend
you both blink in unison do you think
you owe your firm handshake to your
strength workouts
it's more likely thanks to your pinky
yeah just kidding
and still the pinky is the strongest
finger out there
it's responsible for fifty percent of
the entire hand strength
but the most used finger is the thumb if
a person loses it
their hand becomes forty percent less
agile oh
and the thumb has its own pulse thanks
to the artery running through it
your big toes carry more than forty
percent of your weight more than all the
other toes combine
all in all all your toes are a big deal
they provide
support and balance when you walk and
when you run
they help you to be faster no more than
two percent of people have
natural red hair they're followed by
blondes about three percent
and all kinds of brown shades about
eleven percent
but the world's most common hair colors
are black and dark brown
hair is almost indestructible it can be
burned or affected by strong acids
but that's pretty much all you can do to
destroy it
your hair usually stops growing at a
certain length and since a hair lives
for two to seven years
its length doesn't normally exceed 42
inches
tell that to this lady from china who
got to the guinness world records with
the longest hair ever
in 2004 it was a bit more than 18
feet 5 inches long wow what a drag
nails can grow staggeringly long too
some of the longest nails in the world
belong to this guy from india
their combined length was 29 feet 10
inches
which is almost as long as a london
double decker
the man cut them off back in 2018
nailed it nails do help us catch small
objects and peel stickers off
but that's not all if you didn't have a
rigid structure to press against
you wouldn't be able to understand how
firmly you should hold things
not only your hair and nails but also
your liver can grow
it's the largest internal organ by mass
the liver can fully regenerate from only
of its original mass back to the full
size
at the same time constant damage to the
liver will result in scars
the largest organ in your whole body is
the skin
it makes up more than fifteen percent of
your total body weight
people lose thirty thousand to forty
thousand skin cells
every single minute it adds up to nine
pounds of skin cells a year
you know that dust in your house well
now you know where
some of it comes from the tongue isn't
the only organ that helps you recognize
taste your nose also plays a critical
role in this process
it's often said the nose is responsible
for 75 to 95
of your taste perception try holding
your nose next time you eat
gnaw on an onion or eat some smoked fish
it's not that you won't feel any taste
at all
but it's gonna be way blander your taste
buds won't work properly if your mouth
is too
dry you simply won't feel the taste
until the food is covered in saliva
it contains enzymes which are complex
protein molecules
they start to break down your food as
soon as it gets into your mouth
a recent study has found out that people
can distinguish more than a trillion
smells
you tend to remember odors better than
sounds or images
that's why smells can evoke distant
memories
when you're asleep you don't feel any
odors
your sense of smell basically
deactivates at night even if there's
some terrible stench in your bedroom
you won't notice it i'm sure my dog is
relieved to hear that
the color of your dream seemed to be
affected by the tv
you washed as a kid if it was black and
white
you probably see monochrome dreams more
often than not
if you're used to color television your
dreams are likely to be colorful
hmm what kind of dreams did people in
the middle ages have then
nights that say knee your heart can give
you away when you lie
by starting to beat faster women's
hearts are usually smaller than men's
that's why they have to work harder and
make more beats otherwise
they won't be able to pump enough blood
even if you brush your teeth twice a day
and never forget about mouthwash your
mouth still remains one of the dirtiest
parts of your body
millions of bacteria live there the good
news is that most of them are good for
your health
they protect your body from bad bacteria
and viruses
the second dirtiest place is your belly
button you don't really use it after you
were born
so this forlorn area accumulates all
kinds of
germs sweat and dirt the belly button
has over 2
300 bacterial species and it does need
extra attention they say eyes don't grow
with the rest of the body
well it's not a hundred percent true
because the eyes aren't fully developed
until you're about 21 but the absolute
growth champions here
are your ears and nose they never stop
growing
wow what was that thing about elephants
again must have been a different video
if all your blood vessels were stretched
into a single line
dang you would be in a really tough spot
but
they would go around the earth four
times
you can't tickle yourself no matter how
hard you try
you've just checked that and failed
haven't you that's because your brain
warns you that you're about to be
tickled
which it can't do if it's someone else
ever wondered why you feel so sleepy
after lunch
one of the reasons is your circadian
rhythm which runs on a 24-hour cycle
it demands that you have a nap seven
hours after waking up
and the food just adds to this effect as
simple as that
excuse me it's time